In this video, we'll overload
the move assignment operator
for our mystring class.
Remember, the copy assignment
operator that we just overloaded
in the previous video works
with l-value references.
The move operator that will
overload in this video works
with r-value references.
Again, think temporary
unnamed objects.
You don't have to provide
a move assignment operator.
And if you don't, c++ will use
the copy constructor by default.
But as we said when we talked
about the move constructor, move
semantics can be much more efficient,
and it's not a lot of extra work
to provide a move constructor
and a move assignment operator.
First, let's see when the move
assignment operator will be used.
In the code snippet in this
slide, you can see that we create
a mystring object s1 that's
basically just an empty string.
Now we assign the mystring object
with the string frank to it.
Notice that the mystring
object initialized to
frank must be constructed.
And once it's constructed, it has
no name, it's a temporary object.
So it's an r-value.
That means that when we assign
it to s1, the move assignment
operator will be called since we're
providing an r-value reference.
Let's see how to do
this syntactically.
You'll notice the move assignment
operator declaration is very
similar to copy assignment.
But there are a few differences.
First, we use the double ampersand
operator in the parameter list
to tell the compiler that the
right-side object is an r-value.
So the right-side value will
be an r-value reference.
Second the right-hand side
object reference can't be const
since we'll be modifying that
object when we move the data.
So the declaration for the mystring
class returns a mystring object by
reference and expects an r-value
reference to a mystring object.
You can see that in the two assignment
statements on this slide, the move
assignment operator will be called
because the right-hand side of the
assignment statements are r-values.
So let's look at the code for the move
assignment operator for this example.
As you would expect, the code
is very similar to the copy
assignment with the exception
that we're not deep copying
from the right-hand side object.
Instead, we're simply stealing
the pointer and then nulling
out the right-hand side pointer.
Again, you can see from this
code how much more efficient this
is compared to copy assignment.
Let's walk through this
one step at a time.
First, we check for
self-assignment just before.
And if we're self-assigning,
then we return the left-hand
side object, and we're done
since there was nothing to do.
Otherwise, we again de-allocate the
storage pointed to by the left side
object since we'll be overriding
this, and we don't want a memory leak.
Now the left-hand
side object is ready.
So let's move the pointer over.
First, we steal the pointer from
the right-side object and assign
it to the left-side object.
This is simply a copy
of a pointer variable.
We're not doing a deep copy here.
Then we know out the pointer
on the right-side object.
This step is critical.
Finally, we return
the left-side object.
Now let's head over to the
IDE and compare the move
assignment operator to the copy
assignment operator in live code.
Okay, so I'm back in the IDE.
I'm in the section 14 workspace in
the mystring-move-assignment project.
Now what I'd like to do in this
project is add a move assignment
operator to our mystring class.
This can be really useful when
we're assigning r-value references.
So let me give you an example
of how this would work.
Here we've created an object
a, and it's using an overloaded
constructor that's expecting
that character pointer.
And we're just constructing
a simple object a that's
got that string attribute
pointing to hello on the heap.
Now at this point, we
want to use assignment.
Remember, a already exists so now this
will be assignment not initialization.
And what I want to do is construct
another mystring object off of
the initialization string hola.
At this point, that temporary object
has no name, so it's an r-value.
If we don't provide any move
semantics, then it's going to use a
copy constructor or a copy assignment
operator to do what it needs to do.
And if I run this right now, remember,
I don't have any move constructors
-- sorry, I don't have any move
assignment operator implemented.
So if I run this at this point,
you'll see that it's using copy
assignment, using copy assignment.
Now we really could use move
assignment here since we've
got those r-value references,
and that's what we'll do.
So let's go over conceptually
what's going on here again.
At this point, we've created
that a object, and it's on
the stack, it's got the str
attribute, which is a pointer.
And once this object has
been constructed that pointer
is pointing to the string
hello, which is on the heap.
And again remember, it's got
that null terminator at the end.
So this is the situation
once we instantiate a.
Now what we want to do is we
want to assign to a the object
that we created right here.
So let's create that object.
That object gets created exactly the
same way as we created a, right?
It's using the overloaded constructor.
But it doesn't have a name.
It's an unnamed temporary object.
So I'm just going to leave it right
over here like this without a name.
It's got an str attribute,
and it's pointing to hola,
which is on the heap.
So that's the situation
like right now.
Now what we want to do is we want
to assign this guy over to this guy.
But we really don't want to
do the overhead of copying
because we don't need to.
This temporary object
will be destroyed soon.
So let's just use move assignment
so that we can steal that pointer
and not have to make any copies
of anything or copy anything over.
Okay, so let's do that.
How does this work,
what are the semantics.
Well, the first thing we need to do
is de-allocate the space here, right.
We need to call delete for this guy
because we're not going to use that.
That's the whole point.
I want to assign to it.
So we're going to get rid of that.
And what that's going to do it's going
to leave us in this situation where
we're no longer pointing to that area.
And then what we want to do is
we want to steal the pointer.
So I want to make this
pointer here point to hola.
And then once that's done, what
I want to do is not delete this.
I don't want to delete this
information here, right.
I don't want to de-allocate that
because I'm using it now over here.
All I want to do is just
null out that pointer.
So that's what I'll do.
I'll just null this pointer out.
So this guy is now null.
You'll notice a is now though the
string attribute a is now pointing
to the correct string in the on
the heap which is what I want.
This guy has been nulled out.
So when it gets destroyed by the
destructor, it won't delete anything
out there on the heap because it's
not pointing to anything on the heap.
So once this gets destroyed,
we're right back to here, which
is exactly where we want to be.
And the same is true with
this statement right here.
A is bonjour.
We'll create a temporary object.
There's the str, and it's going
to be pointing to bonjour, right.
Now when we assign over,
we'll do the same thing.
We want to de-allocate
that storage right here.
So we want to get rid of this.
We want to move the pointer, right.
We just want to seal this
pointer let it point over here.
And then what we want to
do is set this pointer
right here to null, right.
So we just move the data
simply by just pointing to
it from a different place.
This will be destroyed.
And that's the effect that we want.
Okay, perfect.
So now let's write some code for this.
And you'll see it's actually
a little bit simpler even
than the copy assignment.
First things first.
Let's go to the header file.
And you'll notice that I've already
implemented a move constructor.
I just wanted to be complete
there, so the move constructor
has been implemented.
And it's about as dead
simple as you can get.
Let me show you what the
move constructor looks like.
It's right here.
Remember, this is a constructor now.
This is not an assignment, so this
is actually creating a new object
based on an r-value reference.
So you can see right here on line
35, I'm stealing the pointer, right.
So I'm taking the source object's
pointer and moving it right to str.
And then I'm nullifying
the source object pointer.
So that's it.
We just stole the pointer, that other
object will eventually be destroyed.
Let's write the move
assignment operator.
So let's go back to our header
file, and we'll do it right here.
And we'll do something like
mystring reference because
it's the same idea here.
We're overloading operator equal.
We don't want to be const here
because we do need to modify
that right-hand side's string
attribute to null it out.
So it's simply going to be mystring,
two ampersands here because we wanted
our-value reference right-hand side.
That's it.
And we'll call this
guy move assignment.
All right, so now let's
go implement that method.
So we'll go to mystring cpp file.
And right underneath the copy
assignment right here, I'll just put
it right here under move assignment.
And you can see I've already
set some break points just
to save a little time.
So let's implement this here.
So what do we do.
We're going to return a
mystring reference, and it's
part of the mystring class.
We're overloading operator
equal, and we're expecting a
mystring r-value reference.
Okay, that's it.
So first thing we do is as usual
let's just put a string out on std
cout, and we'll just say something
like using move assignment.
That way we know that
we're actually in here.
And we'll put an endline here.
Perfect. Now let's check for self-assignment.
I'll scroll up just a little bit here.
We'll check for self-assignment so
we're going to say if the current
object, right, the address of this
object is equal to the address of
the right-hand side object, if that's
the case, I've got self-assignment.
So all I want to do
is just return this.
In the case that we're not doing
self-assignment, remember, the
conceptual drawing I just drew.
So what do we want to do.
We want to delete str
from the current object.
We want to steal the pointer.
So we want to assign the
right-hand side's pointer to
the left-hand side's pointer.
And we want to nullify
the right-side pointer.
This one's really, really important.
If you forget to do this step, then
there's going to be problems because
what's going to happen is when that
temporary object gets destroyed,
it's going to take this data with it.
So you want to be sure that
this is pointing to nowhere.
So right-hand side.string
equals null pointer.
That's it.
We return this.
Now we'll step through this in a
second, but let's run it first.
And now you can see the
difference in the run, using move
assignment, using move assignment.
That's exactly what we want.
And then we've got two destructors
being called for null pointers, right,
which is again exactly what we want.
All right, so let me
put a break point here.
And let's walk through
this using the debugger.
So I'm going to go
back to my main here.
And I'll start the debugger over here.
All right, so this is where we're at.
Right now, we're about
to call the overloaded
constructor to create the a.
That's pretty standard stuff now.
Here we are.
We don't have a null pointer.
So we're simply going to
allocate space for the string,
copy it over, and we're done.
So now a is hello, and you
can see the address of that
string attribute right here.
Now what we need to do here is
first construct that temporary
object and then call the overloaded
assignment operator, right, with
an r-value reference because
that's exactly what this is.
This is an unnamed object
so let's walk through this.
So first, we're going to create
the object using the overloaded
constructor right here.
So we'll walk through that,
allocate the space, copy it over.
It's done.
Now notice that the move assignment
operator gets called right away.
That's exactly what you expect because
we have an r-value reference here
which is a temporary unnamed object.
So we display using move assignment,
we check for self assignment, which we
don't have, we delete this str, right.
Remember, this is this
object right here.
So we're going to delete
that and de-allocate it.
We're going to steal the
pointer, and then we're going
to nullify that other pointer.
Now the temporary object is
being destructed right here.
And we do have a null pointer
now because we nulled it out.
You can see it's 0 right there.
So this will print out calling
destructor for null pointer.
We'll delete the area.
And that's it.
Now if we refresh, you'll
see that a now is hola.
So we did exactly what we
said we were going to do.
Here it's the same idea.
First, we're going to construct a
temporary object based on that string.
So let's do that.
Here we are.
We're in the overloaded constructor
and that's going to create a
temporary object with bonjour in it.
Then we call the move assignment
again because we have an r-value
reference and what we're going
to do here is we're just going
to steal that bonjour pointer.
First, we delete what
we're pointing to, right.
So hola is gone.
Then we steal the bonjour
pointer, and we set that temporary
object's pointer to null.
We return the object, and then
we're going to destroy that
temporary object again the one that
we just stole the pointer from.
We'll delete it.
We're back, and you can
see now that a is bonjour.
We'll unwind now, and we'll destroy a.
There you go.
And you can see over here that
we've got two move assignments,
three destructors; two destroying
just null pointers temp objects and
then the final one destroying the
actual a object that we created.
That's it.
So you can see it's
pretty straightforward.
And we'll see that in the main driver
here, I've got a lot more code.
And if you recall that code
running from before, so I'll
run this code again in the main
now that I've uncommented it.
And if you remember, when we
ran it before, it was using copy
constructors and copy assignment.
Well in this case when we run
it, we're going to see a lot
more move semantics going on.
So I'll scroll up here, and you can
see that we've got move assignment,
move assignment, move assignments,
move assignments, move constructors.
So this version is much,
much more efficient.
And if -- again, walk through it,
check out the the statements, use
the debugger if you like and really
understand what's going on, but
it's very very straightforward.
In the case of r-values, we really
want those move assignments and
move constructors just to make
our code so much more efficient.